docs: Add reference documentation for `Microsoft.OpenSSH.SSHD/Windows` (#934)
PowerShell/DSC: docs/reference/resources/Microsoft/OpenSSH/SSHD/Windows/index.md

---
description: Microsoft.OpenSSH.SSHD/Windows resource reference documentation
ms.date:     07/02/2025
ms.topic:    reference
title:       Microsoft.OpenSSH.SSHD/Windows
---

# Microsoft.OpenSSH.SSHD/Windows

## Synopsis

Manage SSH client and server configuration.

## Metadata

```yaml
Version    : 0.1.0
Kind       : resource
Tags       : [OpenSSH, Windows]
Author     : Microsoft
```

## Instance definition syntax

```yaml
resources:
  - name: <instance name>
    type: Microsoft.OpenSSH.SSHD/Windows
    properties:
      # Instance properties
      shell: 
      escapeArguments:

>       cmdOption:

Author: These are optional values. Examples should show how it works.

```

## Description

The `Microsoft.OpenSSH.SSHD/Windows` resource enables you to idempotently manage SSH server
configuration. The resource can:

- Add and update SSH client and server configuration settings.

> [!NOTE]
> This resource is installed with DSC itself on systems.
>
> You can update this resource by updating DSC. When you update DSC, the updated version of this
> resource is automatically available.

## Requirements

- The resource requires OpenSSH server and client to be installed on the Windows system.
- The resource must run in a process context that has permissions to manage the SSH server
  configuration settings.

> - The resource must run at least under a Windows Server 2019 or Windows 10 (build 1809)
>   operating system.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- The resource must run under a Windows Server 2019 or Windows 10 (build 1809) operating system or
  later.
```

- `set` - You can use the resource to enforce the desired state for an instance.

This resource uses the synthetic test functionality of DSC to determine whether an instance is in
the desired state. For more information about resource capabilities, see
[DSC resource capabilities][00].

## Examples

1. [Configure default shell PowerShell][01] - Shows how to set the default shell to PowerShell.exe

## Properties

The following list describes the properties for the resource.

- **Instance properties:** <a id="instance-properties"></a> The following properties are optional.
  They define the desired state for an instance of the resource.

  - [shell](#shell) - The path to the default shell for SSH.
  - [cmdOption](#cmdOption) - Specifies command-line options for the shell.
  - [escapeArguments](#escapeArguments) - Specifies whether shell arguments should be escaped.

### shell

<details><summary>Expand for <code>shell</code> property metadata</summary>

```yaml
Type             : string, null
IsRequired       : false
IsKey            : false
IsReadOnly       : false
IsWriteOnly      : false
```

</details>

Defines the path to the default shell executable to use for SSH sessions.

> This property is required and must specify a valid path to an executable on the system.

Author: Fixed.

validating schema only includes schema keywords that affect how the instance is validated. All
non validating keywords are omitted.

```json
{
  "type": "object",
  "properties": {
    "shell": {
      "type": [
        "string",
        "null"
      ]
    },
    "cmdOption": {
      "type": [
        "string",
        "null"
      ]
    },
    "escapeArguments": {
      "type": [
        "boolean",
        "null"
      ]
    }
  }
}
```

## Exit codes

The resource returns the following exit codes from operations:

- [0](#exit-code-0) - Success
- [1](#exit-code-1) - Invalid parameter

### Exit code 0

Indicates the resource operation completed without errors.

### Exit code 1

Indicates the resource operation failed due to an invalid parameter. When the resource returns this
exit code, it also emits an error message with details about the invalid parameter.

## See also

- [Microsoft.DSC/PowerShell resource][02]
- For more information about OpenSSH, see [OpenSSH Documentation][03]

<!-- Link definitions -->
[00]: ../../../../../concepts/resources/capabilities.md
[01]: ./examples/configure-default-shell-powershell.md
[02]: ../../../DSC/PowerShell/index.md

> [03]: /windowsserverdocs/WindowsServerDocs/administration/OpenSSH/openssh-overview

Author: I think this is used internally.
